# Real-Time-Finance-Data-with-AWS-Lambda
## Introduction
The purpose of this project is to show the process of consuming “real-time” data and dumping it in a manner that facilitates querying and further analysis in real-time or near real-time capacity. 


Below are the four major infrastructure elements used for the data:
1.	A lambda function that gathers our data 
2.	A Kinesis stream that holds our data 
3.	A serverless process that allows us to query our S3 data 
4.	Visualizations of the query results (Jupyter)

By using these elements, it allows us to query and analyze data in real-time.

2 visualizations were the created using Jupyter to answer the questions below:
* Which company is the most volatile?
* Do the findings from this graph support your conclusion from the first graph?
## Data Overview
The stock data of high and low prices of stock are between April 3rd, 2023, and April 14th, 2023 of specific companies was used in this data set.


Below are the companies used:
* Amazon (AMZN)
* Alibaba Group (BABA)
* Walmart (WMT)
* eBay (EBAY)
* Shopify (SHOP)
* Target (TGT)
* Best Buy (BBY)
* The Home Depot (HD)
* Costco (COST)
* Kroger (KR)

## Data Collection
The Lambda function was used to collect and process the data and is pushed to a Kinesis Delivery Stream using the yfinance module, a Python library that allows you to connect to and read stock data.
This is then uploaded and stored to an AWS S3 Bucket to emulate near real-time finance data records for downstream processing and interactive querying. 


Below is the Kinesis Monitoring Page:

Below is the S3 Bucket Page:

## Data Analysis
The AWS Glue was then configured and directed to the S3 Bucket. This allows us to now interactively query the S3 files generated by the Lambda function. AWS Athena is then used to gain insight into our streamed data by running queries on the average volatility, the highest volatility, and the lowest volatility per company per day.

Below is the AWS Athena Results:

## Data Visualization
Which company is the most volatile?

Based on the graph above, Costco (COST) is most volatile stock. 

Do the findings from this graph support your conclusion from the first graph?

The graph above supports that Costco (COST) is most volatile stock daily. 
